# Configuration
ChartConverter's behavior can be configured via the `config.json` file in the application's install directory. Comments and trailing commas are supported.

## Example config.json
```json
{
	"LogLevel": "Info",
	"LogToFile": true,
	"LogDirectory": "C:\\Fumen\\Logs",
	"LogFlushIntervalSeconds": 20,
	"LogBufferSizeBytes": 10240,

	"InputDirectory": "C:\\Games\\StepMania 5\\Songs",
	"InputNameRegex": ".*\\.(sm|ssc)$",
	"InputChartType": "dance-single",
	"DifficultyRegex": ".",

	"OutputDirectory": "C:\\Fumen\\Exports",
	"OutputChartType": "dance-double",
	"OverwriteBehavior": "IfFumenGenerated",
	"NonChartFileCopyBehavior": "DoNotCopy",

	"OutputVisualizations": true,
	"VisualizationsDirectory": "C:\\Fumen\\Visualizations",

	"IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds": 0.176471,
	"IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds": 0.24,

	"LateralTighteningPatternLength": 5,
	"LateralTighteningRelativeNPS": 1.65,
	"LateralTighteningAbsoluteNPS": 12.0,
	"LateralTighteningSpeed": 3.0,

	"DesiredArrowWeights":
	{
		"dance-single": [25, 25, 25, 25],
		"dance-double": [6, 12, 10, 22, 22, 12, 10, 6],
	},

	"StepTypeReplacements" :
	{
		"SameArrow": [ "SameArrow" ],
		"NewArrow": [ "NewArrow" ],
		"CrossoverFront": [ "CrossoverFront" ],
		"CrossoverBehind": [ "CrossoverBehind" ],
		"InvertFront": [ "InvertFront" ],
		"InvertBehind": [ "InvertBehind" ],
		"FootSwap": [ "FootSwap" ],
		"BracketHeelNewToeNew": [ "BracketHeelNewToeNew" ],
		"BracketHeelNewToeSame": [ "BracketHeelNewToeSame", "BracketHeelSameToeNew" ],
		"BracketHeelSameToeNew": [ "BracketHeelSameToeNew", "BracketHeelNewToeSame" ],
		"BracketHeelSameToeSame": [ "BracketHeelSameToeSame" ],
		"BracketHeelSameToeSwap": [ "BracketHeelSameToeSwap", "BracketHeelSwapToeSame" ],
		"BracketHeelNewToeSwap": [ "BracketHeelNewToeSwap", "BracketHeelSwapToeNew" ],
		"BracketHeelSwapToeSame": [ "BracketHeelSwapToeSame", "BracketHeelSameToeSwap" ],
		"BracketHeelSwapToeNew": [ "BracketHeelSwapToeNew", "BracketHeelNewToeSwap" ],
		"BracketOneArrowHeelSame": [ "BracketOneArrowHeelSame" ],
		"BracketOneArrowHeelNew": [ "BracketOneArrowHeelNew", "BracketOneArrowToeNew" ],
		"BracketOneArrowToeSame": [ "BracketOneArrowToeSame" ],
		"BracketOneArrowToeNew": [ "BracketOneArrowToeNew", "BracketOneArrowHeelNew" ],
	},
}
```

## Basic Configuration

### Input
- **InputDirectory**: String type. Directory to search for song files within. Typically the `Songs` directory for StepMania, e.g. `"C:\\Games\\StepMania 5\\Songs"`. The application will recursively search through all of this directory's subdirectories for song files.
- **InputNameRegex**: String type. [Regular Expression](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/regular-expression-language-quick-reference) for matching song file names. `".*\\.(sm|ssc)$"` will match all `sm` and `ssc` files.
- **InputChartType**: String type. StepMania [StepsType](https://github.com/stepmania/stepmania/blob/6a645b4710dd6a89a5f22a2d849e86a98af5c9a3/src/GameManager.cpp#L47) for charts to use as input. Currently the only supported value is `"dance-single"`.
- **DifficultyRegex**: String type. [Regular Expression](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/regular-expression-language-quick-reference) for matching StepMania [DifficultyNames](https://github.com/stepmania/stepmania/blob/6a645b4710dd6a89a5f22a2d849e86a98af5c9a3/src/Difficulty.cpp#L12). `"."` will match all difficulties.

### Output
- **OutputDirectory**: String type. Directory to export converted files to. Using the same directory set for `InputDirectory` will result in an in-place conversion. Using a different directory will result in the files matched from `InputDirectory` to be updated and written to the specified directory. The directory structure from within `InputDirectory` will be maintained.
- **OutputChartType**: String type. StepMania [StepsType](https://github.com/stepmania/stepmania/blob/6a645b4710dd6a89a5f22a2d849e86a98af5c9a3/src/GameManager.cpp#L47) for charts to generate. Current supported values are `"dance-single"` and `"dance-double"`.
- **OverwriteBehavior**: String type. Behavior for overwriting existing charts. Valid values are:
	- `"DoNotOverwrite"`: Existing charts will not be updated.
	- `"IfFumenGenerated"`: Existing charts will be updated if they were generated by this application using any version.
	- `"IfFumenGeneratedAndNewerVersion"`: Existing charts will be updated if they were generated by this application using an older version.
	- `"Always"`: Existing charts will always be updated.
- **NonChartFileCopyBehavior**: String type. Behavior for copying non-chart files from within a song's folder when `OutputDirectory` is different from `InputDirectory`. Valid values are:
	- `"DoNotCopy"`: Do not copy non-chart files.
	- `"IfNewer"`: Copy non-chart files if they do not exist in the destination directory, or if they do exist then only copy them if they are newer than the destination file.
	- `"Always"`: Always copy the non-chart files. 

### Logging
- **LogLevel**: String type. The log level for the application. Valid values are `"Info"`, `"Warn"`, `"Error"`, or `"None"`.
- **LogToFile**: Boolean type. If `true` then the application will log to the directory specified by `LogDirectory` in addition to logging to the console. If `false` then the application will only log to the console.
- **LogDirectory**: String type. Path to directory to log to.
- **LogFlushIntervalSeconds**: Number (integer) type. Interval in seconds to flush the log to disk. If set to `0` then the log will not flush on a timer.
- **LogBufferSizeBytes**: Number (integer) type. Must be non-negative. If the log buffer accumulates this many bytes of data it will flush to disk.

### Visualizations
- **OutputVisualizations**: Boolean type. If `true` then the application will generate [Visualizations](Visualizations.md) in the `VisualizationsDirectory` for each chart generated.
- **VisualizationsDirectory**: String type. Path to directory to generate [Visualizations](Visualizations.md) to.

## Conversion Behavior Configuration

### Individual Step Tightening
When generating steps, the application will first consider costs associated with individual steps, preferring patterns with a lower individual step cost. The values below configure how the application should assign costs to individual step types.

Individual Step Tightening can be disabled by setting `IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds` to `0.0`.

`IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds` and `IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds` represent a range of times in seconds between steps for one foot. If a step is faster (lower) than `IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds` then it will have a cost assigned to it based on its speed. Speed is determined by both the time of the step, and the distance of the step. The speed of a step is weighted based on where its time falls within the range defined by these values. The same step movement taking place over a time closer to `IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds` will have a lower cost than it would if it took place over a time closer to `IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds`. Steps which take longer than `IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds` will have no individual step tightening cost. Steps which take shorter than `IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds` will all be considered equally fast, though larger movements at this speed will still be considered more costly than shorter movements.

For example, to configure the application to apply weights based on individual steps starting at 16th notes at 125bpm and peaking at 16th notes at 170bpm set `IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds` to `0.24` and `IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds` to `0.176471`
```
(60 seconds per minute / (4 notes per beat x 125 beats per minute)) x 2 feet) = 0.24 seconds
(60 seconds per minute / (4 notes per beat x 170 beats per minute)) x 2 feet) = 0.176471 seconds
```

Note the extra multiplication by 2 feet in the above math since in a 16th note pattern each foot is actually moving at half that speed (each foot hits with eighth note frequency).

- **IndividualStepTighteningMinTimeSeconds**: Number (double) type. Time in seconds between steps for one foot. See above explanation. If set to `0.0` then the application will not apply any costs to individual steps based on their speed.
- **IndividualStepTighteningMaxTimeSeconds**: Number (double) type. Time in seconds between steps for one foot. See above explanation.

### Lateral Body Movement Tightening
When generating steps, after considering Individual Step Tightening costs, the application will then consider costs for how quickly the body moves laterally, preferring patterns with lower lateral body movement costs during fast sections. The values below configure how the application should assign costs based on lateral body movement.

Lateral Body Movement Tightening can be disabled by setting `LateralTighteningPatternLength` to `0`.

For each step the application will consider the preceding `LateralTighteningPatternLength` steps. If all the steps in this set move the body in the same lateral direction and as a whole they move over `LateralTighteningSpeed` arrows per second, then the notes per second of this segment will be compared against `LateralTighteningRelativeNPS` and `LateralTighteningAbsoluteNPS`. If the notes per second is faster than `LateralTighteningAbsoluteNPS` or if the notes per second is faster than the average notes per second of the chart as a whole multiplied by `LateralTighteningAbsoluteNPS`, then the step at the end of the section will accrue a cost based on the lateral body speed of section.

Note that in this context "same lateral direction" means steps which do not change directions. For example, steps which move left and keep the body stationary are both valid for a section to be considered all moving in the left direction.

Note also that in this context "arrows per second" for `LateralTighteningSpeed` refers to the width of the arrow panels on the pad. For example in a `dance-double` chart if the body moved from centered over the player 1 arrows to centered over the player 2 arrows in 1 second then it would be moving at 3 arrows per second since the centers are 3 arrows apart.

- **LateralTighteningPatternLength**: Number (integer) type. The number of steps to look for uninterrupted movement in the same direction. If set to `0` then the application will not apply any costs based on lateral body movement.
- **LateralTighteningRelativeNPS**: Number (double) type. Multiplier. If the notes per second of a section of steps is over the chart's average notes per second multiplied by this value then the section is considered to be fast enough to apply a lateral body movement cost to.
- **LateralTighteningAbsoluteNPS**: Number (double) type. Absolute notes per section value. If the notes per second of a section of steps is over this value then the section is considered to be fast enough to apply a lateral body movement cost to.
- **LateralTighteningSpeed**: Number (double) type. Body speed in arrows per second over which fast sections will accrue costs.

### Arrow Distribution
After considering Individual Step Tightening and Lateral Body Movement Tightening the application will then consider costs for how closely the arrow distribution of the chart up to the step under consideration matches the desired distribution, preferring patterns which result in a closer match. For doubles, this results in the application generating charts which move the body back and forth between the sides of the pads.

- **DesiredArrowWeights**: Object type. Each value in this object is a key value pair. The key is a string representing a StepMania [StepsType](https://github.com/stepmania/stepmania/blob/6a645b4710dd6a89a5f22a2d849e86a98af5c9a3/src/GameManager.cpp#L47) and the value is an array of integers representing the desired weights per lane for that type. When generating charts for the specified `OutputChartType`, `DesiredArrowWeights` is used to control, for each lane, what percentage of the chart's steps should fall in that lane. For example, for doubles it is desirable to follow a bell-like curve with more steps on the middles than on the outer arrows. To specify this you could specify `"dance-double": [6, 12, 10, 22, 22, 12, 10, 6]`. The values do not need to sum to 100. They will be compared against each other and normalized when used to generate charts.

	Even with equal Individual Step Tightening and Lateral Body Movement Tightening costs, these weights may not be honored precisely depending on how much they deviate from allowed steps. For example doubles weights of `"dance-double": [50, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 50]` will not result in a chart that only uses the outermost arrows as this level of stretch is not supported, and many step types cannot be represented with just those two arrows (for example, it would be impossible to perform a crossover).

### StepType Replacements
- **StepTypeReplacements**: Object type. Each value in this object is a key value pair. The key is a string representing a [StepType](StepTypes.md) and the value is an array of StepTypes that the application can use instead of the key StepType when generating a chart. The main purpose of this structure is to allow the application to be more lenient with brackets, though it can also be used to replace certain StepTypes. For example, to remove crossovers you could set `"CrossoverFront": [ "NewArrow" ]` and `"CrossoverBehind": [ "NewArrow" ]`.